>> Kyle Simpson: We're back to talk
about the function expressions exercise.
Hopefully you've found this one
is efficiently challenging,
twist your brain around thinking
about functions and their names and
where functions belong and
how to define them.
And especially with the arrow functions,
the differences and
there can be very stark differences
in readability between those styles.
We're gonna start by implementing
the printRecords function.
Again the spec here, if you will,
is asking us to take in a list of
student Ids,
get the student record by it's student Id.
And I've already noticed,
you could notice that there's going to be
at least one other place where we need to
to do that, and that's gonna be down here.
So I already know that's
a utility I'm gonna need,
accessing a student record by its ID.
So I'm gonna start by
writing that function first,
I'll say function getStudentById, and
that's gonna take in the studentId.
>> Kyle Simpson: And it needs to
return me the record from that array.
So it's got a search through the array and
find the one that matches by the ID.
We don't need to implement
our own search algorithm
because JavaScript arrays as vs
six heavy find method on them.
So we're just gonna simply use, and
the array that we're looking over is
called studentRecords, so
we're gonna say studentRecords.find().
And the find() function takes a callback,
that callback is invoked for
each item in an array.
And whenever the first of those
returns true or a truthy value,
then that value from the array is
returned, not the true, but the array.
It's almost like filter,
we basically just need to return true
whenever we have found
the thing that we want.
So, if we have matched the studentId, for
example,
>> Kyle Simpson: I'll just use
record here.
The way we know that we have matched
an ID is if the (record.id == studentId).
>> Kyle Simpson: And that will find
the record in the array and return it,
I'm gonna need that very
first off in my printRecords.
So, the very first thing that
I wanna do is turn my list of
record Ids into a list of studentRecords,
all right.
Because this may not be
the whole list of recordIds, so
I'm basically getting a subset, by ID
of the records that I wanna print out.
So I can do a map function for that,
I can take the recordIds,
>> Kyle Simpson: Which is
an array of numbers studentIds,
and I can map it and
turn it into an array of student
records that I can then print out.
So, but first I'll have to sort them, so
that function I'll call getRecord, okay.
So I'm taking in a studentId,
and I need to go find it and
then I immediately realize already
have this macro function, right?
That's the one that I just wrote,
so basically getStudentById
is my macro function.
Are you with me?
Instead of passing that in as an inline
function expression I have it as
a standalone function, because I have the
foreknowledge of knowing I'm gonna need
that a second time here in just a moment.
[LAUGH] Okay, so
what we get back we could call records.
These are the student records
that we wanna print, but
we can't print them just yet
because we need to sort this list by name.
So we need to say records.sort,
the sort function is,
>> Kyle Simpson: Frustratingly a mutator
rather than returning a new array, it
mutates in place for performance reasons.
So we don't actually need to say
records equals records, that sort,
we can just call records.sort and
it mutates it.
You could get a return value if you cared,
but I tend to think the return value makes
it look like it's not mutating
in place when it is so,
I usually just call it as a mutator,
all right.
So, sort if you call it with nothing it
does an alpha numeric sort on the values,
and the problem with that is
our values are objects and
they are gonna string of by two objects
as we talked about the types unit.
So, we're gonna need to provide a function
call back that can do the comparison.
So I will call this function call back,
sortbyNameAscending, according
to what it said.
And the way this function call back
works is it receives two records.
So we will receive record1,
and record2, and
what we're supposed to do is if
record1 is less than record2.
Meaning record1 should show
up earlier in the list,
then were supposed to return
something less than 0 like -1.
If it's greater than record2
we're supposed to return 1,
and if it's equal to we're
supposed to return 0.
So, we can say if (record1.name
< record2.name).
Now we have the advantage of knowing
that in this data structure the names
are always strings.
So this last thing is not gonna course
it's just gonna do in alpha numeric
comparison.
If the string is less than this one,
alpha numerically then it's
gonna sort early in the list.
So if record1.name is less than
record2.name, then we can return -1.
If record1.name > record2.name,
we an return 1, and
otherwise, we'll return 0.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Just as a practice question.
Even if assuming you
knew that sortByNameAsc
by name ascending you would
not be using anywhere else.
Would you ever consider extracting that?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes I would.
>> Speaker 2: And then just have
records.sort, sort by, okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: And it's especially
true because this sort by name
ascending function doesn't rely
upon anything in the lexical scope,
it doesn't need to be embedded.
Well, we will actually come to
that question in another exercise.
So we have sorted the list of records,
now we simply need to print the records.
And again because the spirit of
the exercise is to use functions,
let's use our friend, forEach.
We can say records.forEach.
>> Kyle Simpson: And we're just gonna
do a simple console.log statement here,
I'll say record.name.
And then in parenthesis
I'll say record.id and
then we'll have an expression here
that if they are paid we'll say paid.
So record.id I'm sorry
record.paid which is true or
false, and we'll say paid or not paid.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, so
there is our print record function.
Now paid students to enroll,
the expect the read me
requirement say that it should look
throughout the student records.
Checking to see which ones are paid but
not yet
enrolled, meaning they
have a paid of true but
their ID is not already in
that current enrollment array.
So, let's see that what
we're going to get is a list
of idstoEnroll, and
then what we're going to return is
a new array that includes
the current enrollment.
So we will spread out
the currentEnrollment, and
then we will include whatever
we've got in idsToEnroll.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
how do we get the idsToEnroll?
Well, we can start with
the studentRecords.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
we can filter studentRecords,
>> Kyle Simpson: That was only going
to get us down to the studentRecords, and
then we're gonna need to map
that list into a list of IDs.
But we can start by filtering
the studentRecords,
and so we will say, needsToEnroll.
>> Kyle Simpson: And we wanna keep
it in that list if record.paid,
meaning they have paid and
they are not already
in current enrollment.
And there is a built in
JavaScript array method called
includes also added this time in ES 2016.
Array includes searches for
a value in the array and gives us true or
false if it's there.
So we don't need me to do that down
little index of trick that we used to do.
So I can simply say if current enrollments
if not current enrollments includ.record,
that gives me a record,
but I don't need a record.
What I actually need is the ID,
so now I need to do
a map which gets the StudentId
from the record.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
now that populates idsToEnroll.
So we have not modified
the currentenrollment,
we're simply returning the new array for
you to do something with it.
Finally we have the remindUnpaid,
again the requirements say that we
should take a list of studentIds.
Filter that list to only those
whose records are in unpaid status,
and then pass that filtered
list to printRecords.
So we're gonna do another filter,
this time we're gonna do recordIds.filter,
and
what we're gonna get back
from that is the unpaidIds.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now we have
the student id but we need the record.
So we need to get the record
by saying record = and
then we use that little helper that
I wrote earlier, getStudentById.
>> Kyle Simpson: And then we need to say,
if record.paid if not record.paid.
>> Kyle Simpson: So that will give me the
list of ids who's record is in the unpaid
status, then I should simply pass
that list into printRecords.